---
title: Effect of Information about COVID-19 Vaccine - MDPI
permalink: /research/covid/covid-vaccine-research
third_nav_title: Covid
---
A Report on COVID-19 Variants,  COVID-19  Vaccines  and  the  Impact  of  the Variants on the Efficacy of the Vaccines Michael Halim1* Abstract The Coronavirus pandemic has caused negative effects across the globe; mortality  and  morbidity  being  the  main  impact.  After  WHO,  termed the disease a pandemic in March 2020, they gave in health guidelines to follow  to  control  the  spread  of  the  disease.  The  health  industry, academia,  and  different  governments  are  united  to  develop  and  test various  vaccines  at an  unprecedented speed  to combat  the  pandemic fully  and  bring  the  world  back  to  its  feet.  Some  of  the  vaccines developed  include  Pfizer,  Moderna,  and  AstraZeneca.  However,  just like  other  viruses,  the  SAR-CoV-2  virus  keeps  changing  through mutation, as various  variants,  different from the first  one  is emerging. Evidence shows that the  three new variants; UK, Brazil,  and  South Africa are  more  severe in terms of transmissibility,  disease  severity,  evading  of  the  immune  response,  and  reducing  the  ability  to neutralized antibodies, compared to the original coronavirus.With  such  knowledge of the existence of different strains, the arises concerns on whether the  already available vaccines are effective enough in preventing the new COVID-19 strains. Studies are still underdeveloped to learn more on the virologic, epidemiologic,  and  clinical  characteristics  of  the  ever-emerging  variants.  This  research,  through  a systemic review of  literature, seeks to find  out  whether the variants  of  SAR-CoV-2 have an impact  on the  efficacy  of  various  vaccines  developed  in  fighting  the  disease  and  the  entire  body’s  immune response. Keywords:  Coronavirus  pandemic;  COVID-19  variants;  Immune response;  Transmissibility,  Genomic surveillance; Vaccine efficacy; Epidemiology; Diagnosis; Treatment.